Matrices can be subsetted, in the kind
of the, the way that you would expect.
So the first index is going to be, the,
the row index, the second index is
going to be the column index, and
we can use numbers for this too.
So, so for example, x is a matrix, it's
a two by three matrix with the numbers one
through six in it, if I take x with the,
with the [1, 2] that gives me
the first row second column, and so that's
going to be the, the number three, and
then the, the second row first column
is going to be the number two.
You don't have to always specify both
indices when subsetting a matrix, So for
example if I say x bracket 1, comma and
then blank for the second index,
that's in, that notation indicates that
I want the first row of the matrix,
in which case the,
this is a vector one, three, five.
If I wanted the second column of the
matrix I could just leave the first index
blank and say x bracket and
then comma two, that gives me
the second column which is three, four.
So by default when a single
element of a matrix is retrieved,
is returned to vector of length one,
rather than a one by one matrix.
So remember I said that before, the si,
the single square operator always
returns an object of the same class,
so, the one that's, that sometimes is
a little bit unexpected, is that if I
subset out, a single element of a matrix,
I don't get back a matrix, what I get back
is just a vector with that number in it,
so if I say x, one, two, that gives
the first row second column of the matrix,
that's just a number three, and
what I get back is a number three,
[COUGH] not a one by one matrix,
with the number three in it.
This is usually what you want, although
sometimes it can cause problems, and so
you can turn off this default behavior
by adding an extra argument to
the subsetting operation,
which is called drop.
And the idea is that by default,
drop is equal to true, and
it drops the dimension, and so rather than
getting a two dimensional object back,
you, you typically get a one
dimensional object back.
However if you want to preserve
the dimensions of the object,
you can say drop equal to false and
when I subset out the first row,
second column, what I get back is a one by
one matrix with the element three in it.
Now also when you subset
a single column or
a single row, you don't, you, you by
default, you don't get a matrix back, so
for example, if I subset out the first
row here you might think that, well,
what should be returned, is really a one
by three matrix where there's one row and
three columns, and
the elements are one, three, five.
Well that's not actually
what you get back,
what you get back, is a vector with
the elements one, three, five.
Usually this is what you want, and
it's okay, but if it's not, then you can
always set the drop equal to false
argument when you subset the matrix, and
then you get a one by three matrix with
the elements one, three, and five in it.